---
title: Krag the Quick
draft: true
tags:
  - old
date: 2024-07-09 21:40
---
Krag was an apprentice to Stroghiem an accomplished engraver. One who worked tirelessly to beautify the endless tunnels and caverns of the [[Goweh]], their homeland. These tunnels worked by Stroghiem are said to be the most beautiful the Goweh holds. Krag, being a second generation stone giant, garnered jealousy from his peers. But he was oblivious to this blessing. He hated the slow, monotonous work of engraving. This wasn’t for him, sitting in the dark, chipping at rocks. Krag took his breaks running the halls, trying to find something new each day, struggling to fight the tedium he labored under every waking moment. Over 200 years of days split between chiseling and running the Goweh pathways, and finally Krag discovered something new. Something so exotically different it put the beauty of Stroghiem’s carvings to shame. Krag had finally run himself to the surface, and he fell in love. Everything was so alive. Change was constant, the surface was evolving and moving at a rate never before witnessed by a second generation stone giant. So Krag ran. The beginnings of human civilization had begun on Attovia, and at first Krag’s swift appearance terrified those he encountered. The surface dwellers learned quickly however, that he was no danger to them. Krag’s 200 years of running meant he moved at such a speed as to clear mountains and settlements in a single leap. Centuries passed as Krag traveled from one end of Attovia to the other. His speed increased till he was but a blur passing overhead. He touched ground more infrequently as the years passed, until one day he touched it no more. Krag was welcomed by the cloud giants into their domain for he had always been one of them. He had been lost to the earth below. Believing he had died or been enslaved the cloud giants had mourned their loss and then moved on. To this day Krag rules the cloud giants’ misty kingdom of the sky, having become one of the most long living and formidible of their kind.